So we had a look at push notifications and were able to send these test messages to Android and iOS,
which is of course right now, let's see what we can do with those messages.
In the last lecture I added in its state here in the chat screen to request for notification permissions
with help of that firebase messaging package.
We need that on iOS.
We don't need it on Android, but we need data loss in order to receive and work with messages.
I also called Configure on that firebase messaging object.
Now, of course, we're not limited to just getting messages, tapping on them and opening our app,
even though that already is not too bad.
But Configure here actually has a couple of arguments we can pass to it and those will be triggered
upon different events.
And you'll find more information in the firebase messaging flutter package documentation here.
Under receiving messages, you learn when which method is triggered.
You'll see that on message, which is another argument you can pass in is always triggered whenever
you receive a message and the app is running in the foreground.
So whenever the app is currently open, for example, if you have an app with different areas, you
could use that to navigate the user from the profile part to the chat part or anything like that.
Now, if the app is in the background or terminated on resume or on launch is fired.
Now for Android, it is worth noting that this will only fire, if you did add does extra metadata to
your outgoing message.
And I will come back to that in a second.
So let's configure that, let's add on message to handle messages, which we get whilst the app is running
in the foreground and here will get our message.
So let's just print message here.
This message will be a map, by the way, full of different data.
And it actually wants me to add a return statement here because it expects to get back a future.
I can just return like this.
I will also specify on launch, which should be triggered if the app was terminated and we got a message,
so I'll also print my message here and return.
And we also got.
On resume, where we get our message, which we can print.
And which we can return here.
So these are these free handlers, these free functions you can define that will trigger upon different
events.
Now, let me save this.
And kill the app and restart and rebuild it entirely for my iPhone here.
So did I have the latest version on the iPhone?
I want that so that I can also kill it's there and still see if that all works correctly.
So let's wait for that rebuild process to finish.
And now with Kiev running again on issues here on the right, let's test those different handlers.
Now, the app is running in the foreground here, so I'll now send another message through this test
console, duplicate this last notification.
Review it and publish it.
And you won't see anything here because the apples in the foreground, because of that, I also get
no notification here.
But you see information being printed here, you see that is in the end my message data, we get a sender
ID and then here we got some information.
We get the title, for example.
We got the body here.
Body does this work and we could have added more metadata, though, which data exactly you can add
depends on the platform your targeting and you find more information on that and which fields you can
set where in the firebase cloud messaging docs.
But you see, we're getting information about our message here and therefore here in on message, which
was the function being triggered.
You can now do whatever you want to do up on this message, navigate somewhere else and your application,
show some dialog to the user, do whatever you want to do with that incoming message.
So next, I will switch to a different app.
I'm switching to the browser here again, so the app is now not terminated, but it's running in the
background and I will do this again, duplicate this.
Review this and publish.
And back here, we see the message coming in here at the top, so there's all the works and if I now
tap on it, it opens my app.
But now and that's the difference to before we again see that data being logged here, the same data
as before.
But this is now coming from on a resume from this function because that's getting triggered if your
app is running in the background and the user then taps on an incoming notification.
And again, you can now do whatever you want to do in there, navigate the user somewhere else and so
on.
Now, let's see on launch, which according to these docs here, will run whenever the app was terminated.
So.
Let me do that, so I killed the application off screen, now I'll duplicate this.
Review this and publish it again, and we see the message coming in.
And if I tap on it, I restart the app.
And we don't see the law here, unfortunately, because by killing the FBI, well, lost the connection,
but you would see it if we still had the connection and of course, this code executed on the device.
So, again, you can do here whatever you want to do, show the user a message, do whatever you want
to do.
So that is I guess now let's test this on Android.
And for this, I'll switch back to the pixel emulator here and now let's restart the app there.
Now, one important note as mentioned in the firebase messaging docs, so in the docs for our flutter
package we're using, you have to add this extra data to the notification in order to make sure that
your code is on resume and on launch executes.
And you get your message information, dear, if a user taps the notification with your app being terminated
or in background.
So that's something we'll have to do.
Now, before we do that, let's see the foreground mode, though.
Here is the app running now, Acleda, that so that we can see everything new that's coming in.
And now, again, I will go back here and actually it's not enough to just duplicate the Android only
notification because I only want to test it there and I'll publish this.
And I don't see anything here because it's running in the foreground.
That's why we don't get the message here.
But in the log, you see notification data here now we still got that fatal, failed to find callback
error, but we clearly did receive this notification object or this notification map here.
So this on message code clearly executed and you could do whatever you want to do there.
So this would work.
So this most likely is not an error with your code, but some internal problem which still doesn't cause
any problems here.
It still works.
As you can tell, this data here is visible.
So the code and on message clearly executed.
Now, if I would put this app into background mode, so it's still open and the task manager, but it's
in the background.
And I tried sending this again.
If I published this.
You will see that the message arrived here, but if I tap at the app opens, but we don't see any output
here, so now our code in on resume that not execute.
And that makes sense because we need to add this extra data to our outgoing message.
So let's send another message by duplicating it again, but now, before reviewing and publishing,
let's go to additional options and under a key here at Click Action.
And as a value add flutter notification click written like this.
And now review this before you publish, make sure you're running in the background, so now publish.
Notifications there, click on it, app opens.
And now, if a scroll up a bit this year is the notification information we got, the notification information
we're printing here in on resume.
Now, let's also see what happens if I killed his application.
Of course, we won't see anything in the log here, but we should still get the notification and clicking
it should at least open the app.
And I can also tell you just this before, of course, on launch will execute in that case.
So the notifications here, we click on it, the app restarts.
Now, again, as I mentioned, we don't see anything in the log here because our app is disconnected,
but the code and on launch would run and you could do whatever you want to do upon this notification.
So that is push notifications in a nutshell.
That is what you can do with them.
This shows your options as a developer just shows you how to set them up.
And of course, there are a lot of details which you can configure, a lot of things you can find tuned
to your likings and to your requirements.
And for that, check out the firebase messaging flutter package documentation here to learn more about
it, but also make sure you die, for example, in the firebase cloud messaging documentation here to
learn all about that, because dad also shares many useful details about what you can configure, which
kind of messages you can send, which kind of data you can put into messages and much more.